So what's next?
>> A process called
Baum Welch re-estimation.
>> That's like
Expectation-maximization again, right?
>> Correct.
>> But how does it differ
from what we just did?
>> It's very similar, but
with Baum Welch, every sample of
the data contributes to every state
proportionally to the probability of
that frame of data being in that state.
So you're saying that even though this
9 here is most likely in state one,
its values still effects state two and
three.
>> But only a little bit because its
likelihood of belonging to states two
and three is pretty low.
>> But for data like this 2 here,
it has a high likelihood of
being in state one or state two.
>> And thus, has a bigger influence
on the final output probabilities for
those states than for state three.
>> Okay, that doesn't sound so
bad in theory.
But it sounds hard to calculate
because you have to weigh everything
appropriately.
>> It's actually not that bad.
We can use the forward-backward
algorithm to help keep track of
the calculations.
And it's worth the effort,
because the final model often gives
better results than
our initial estimate.
>> Now that we've given
the intuition for what is going on,
there are several good writeup's
on the details of Baum Welch.
Tutorial is a classic reference, and
Thad's master thesis has an explanation
that continues with
the sign language example.
Or just looking at the code to a popular
HMM toolkit like HTK can be useful, too.
In any case, using one of these
toolkits and watching the means and
variants change as the re-estimation
process iterates will help
build further intuition,
and we highly suggest it.